Expense trackers

Expense trackers are used to track income and expenditure. They are helpful in preparing budgets and managing finances. They are especially useful in situations where one needs to save a part of their income or monitor the outflow of money.
There are multiple applications available that assist in tracking expenses. These function by grouping expenses under multiple categories and by organizing inflow and outflow data with various fields like payment date, amount, purpose and additional notes fields to provide more detailed information about the purchase. A few popular expense tracking applications are listed below:
1. Mint: It is a cloud-based, free of cost finance application. Mint shows the user, their income, expenses, saving goals, credit score, investments and net worth. It allows its users to link their tracker to their bank accounts. Security is implemented by verisign scanning, multi-factor authentication and touch ID mobile access.
2. Goodbudget: Goodbudget is an easy-to-use application designed for beginners. Here, expenses are allocated for different categories using the 'envelope' concept. In the envelope concept, a said amount is placed is multiple conceptual envelopes, with each envelope holding sufficient money for a specific category of tasks. On using more money for a task than what is in the evelope, a red alert is issued. Goodbudget gives the user real time updates of how their transactions affect their budget. Security is implemented through 256-bit bank grade encryption.
3. Expensify: It allows the user to track receipts and submit expenses to their employers. On expensify, expenses are logged by simply scanning the receipts. Like Mint, Expensify also allows the user to link their tracker to their bank accounts. Organization of inflow and outflow happens by categorizing expenses. Users can share or print documents and expense reports from the app for review. Security is implemented through two-factor authentication, so the users can input a generated code while logging in. 

In all the applications researched, the common basic concepts are- categorization, security provisions and an easy-to-use interface. The concept of linking to bank accounts makes the process less cumbersome. 
